youve got okay thank
you all
right
um welcome everybody we are going to get
started with our uh
rescheduled uh Board of Selectmen
regular meeting for April it's Thursday
April 11th and we're going to start this
meeting at
7:01 um the first item on the agenda is
the Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the Republic for which it stands one
nation under God indivisible with
liberty and justice for
all and uh we're going to move on to
item two public speak um we will start
with Diane
Grenier all right we'll Circle back to
Diane because she's probably having
issues Jeff Ballard
can you hear me now we can okay um I've
been asked by
the um I don't know what I should be
saying because I'm on the agenda
for we we'll bring it in on the agenda
Jeff um if you have anything you want to
add that's outside of that that topic
you
can bring it forward or no you you're
good then all right Dian and gr are you
available no Linda fish all set all
right Jody
gross hey Jeff nice to see you good to
see you again how are you wonderful um
I'd like to actually take a few minutes
to uh voice some support for uh well
first of all introductions I'm Jody
gross I've been in Andover for about 19
years now um and I'm before the board of
selectman here to provide some public
comment in support of the uh Joshua
trust in town of Andover open
space uh properties that's being
discussed this evening talking about
putting a looped Trail somewhere between
Skinner Hill and willing and L Hill and
Dogwood Drive I live on Dogwood Drive I
uh really wanted to impress upon the
board of Selectmen three very important
reasons why I
support the establishment of this Trail
um at this particular property the first
is it's access to our town
land um you know having an actual entry
point established to access the land via
a trail head really provides great
opportunity for walking hiking for Town
residents like me number two is that
it's really for Walkers and hikers only
I love my brethren that are bikers but
candidly I'm tired of getting run over
on the airline Trail or if I go over to
um centry to the state forest and run
through bikers I mountain bike myself
but having a small place like that to
just walk and hike in a low impact Trail
would be
wonderful um the third reason is really
it promotes safety and and health for
our town residents um one of our town
Selectmen recently posted a picture of
someone walking on Long Hill Road that
goodness they were bright um bright
bright um a shirt on and thank you by
the way Board of Selectmen who who got
us some vests Long Hill is not a road
for people to be walking on it really
isn't um there's no
sidewalks um there's no painted lines so
this is the perfect opportunity for
Andover to to add another option for
recreation and for for for
walking um in a um in in a not dangerous
area and quite frankly it's really coste
effective so you know I guess as an avid
Walker hiker typical representative of
the 3,200 people that live in this town
um I asked this elected governing body
to really support the idea of opening up
access to a loop trail on the property
thank you for allowing me this
opportunity to support the project um
happy to answer any
questions thank you Jody um Jeff can I
get can I speak as a member of the
public during public speak to be the
record sure go ahead Jeff um I just got
aware of these changes to this Trail and
how it I mean I can see willing Road
from my backyard
And this parking area is going to be
right inside of my house I'm going to
have people walking through my like
right on my property line um it's all
been changed to move up into the
wetlands area um and it's all on toown
property now it has nothing really to do
with Joshua's trust anymore and I just
got this packet uh yesterday or the day
before and none of the property owners
have been uh notified and you know I
understand Jody that you um support the
trail but it's not in your backyard and
like I bought this property I bought
this property for privacy and to enjoy
my backyard not have people walking
through it and I'm like the other
property owner on the other
side I will not support this 100% I'm a
vly against it um because originally
when we did this it was not going to be
up towards the
neighborhood and to my adjoining
neighbors so going forward I am I'm
against this I don't think it's a good
idea it impacts all the Neighbors in my
neighborhood
thanks okay we're gonna we're gonna just
keep going so give us a second Jody and
you can come back uh I'll actually give
you a second chance absolutely I'd
appreciate rebuttal yeah no problem um
Sherry okay yes yeah go ahead
um I am supporting the changes because
um
it's the that I oppe I pose a parking
lot because it's almost on my property
line um and I have serious personal
concerns um and Wheeling where it is if
there's not a lot of people
and I understand his his feelings but um
I think it's it's better for everybody
because it's affecting well it's
affecting the neighbor
neighborhood um and it it is more out of
the way than it is over where you had
originally put it next to people's
houses that's I
feel and it's more feasible for
everybody anything else
Sher
um just especially serious safety and
protective
concerns okay all right thank you um
Bill Penn I know you're a
resident yes uh good evening uh thank
you um um yeah I'm speaking actually
about the Joshua's press property
speaking first as a as a resident uh you
know we we uh I I um par a lot of what
jod had to say about putting it putting
in this Trail um you know I I think it's
a it's a valuable little little trail
that that can be used by the people
especially by the people in the
neighborhood and I'm sure when John
talks about the property in the uh along
the agenda he'll he can give more
elaborate how how common how much use
this type of Trail typically gets Etc
but as a as an anival resident I
strongly uh support this I live right
next to the rail trail which get it's
probably over 100 200 times more people
parking by my house going by my house
Etc and uh it's not really that big a
deal uh so I uh support that I'm also
speaking as a a Joshua trust person that
uh you know we met with the people who
had issues and and addressed them and
this was one of the ways and again John
is going to expect elaborate more on
that during his discussion uh the other
part I wanted to talk about was the
ebike program uh that has been has been
uh proposed or suggested uh and I'd like
voice support for that ebike program uh
especially with the possibility of the
multi-use path along three along um
excuse me route 316 uh we think this is
an opportunity to get more people on the
trail to learn about uh ebikes and the
safe use of ebikes so uh I also support
that endeavor which is on tonight agenda
thank you for your time everybody thanks
Bill uh Kimberly
pan nothing right now thank you okay
Lisa
CTS well thank you all right Joanne
Ebert all set just listening thank you
okay uh Sherry if you could mute
yourself that would be great so that we
could continue on
uh Diane granier uh can you hear me we
can there you go okay okay good I'm
always having problems with this audio
no I'm all set thank you very much okay
and and Jody if you would if you could
keep it brief I'll give you another
go I'm sorry I'll pass I know there's
public speak of the end too correct sure
there is okay all right did I miss
anyone I don't think I did all right
we're going to move on to uh item
um well there should have been well we
can't do additions and agenda or
additions and deletions my bad um I
before we move on I would like to thank
everyone for moving the meeting from
Monday um it was a it was a great Monday
I hope everyone got to enjoy the
basketball game and watch Yukon win uh
their second National Title in a row um
if I had my way we would sit there and
uh uh have a Danny Hurley day in town
and get them to come out to our town and
maybe walk our Trails somewhere so uh
let's move on uh item three boards and
commission presentations of the library
board of directors Diane are you
representing the
library I am representing the uh the
library board go ahead Jeff um we've
been negotiating with uh d uh with
Daniel uh
Pino uh to get a 18th century tall clock
um for loan and display it was uh this
18th century Daniel burnap you know from
town who had a workshop in Po in the
Attica Post Farm um we've had it
appraised by Art
lient and uh he the only space the only
wall space in the library that we have
really available for that display of
clock is to the right of the entrance as
you're heading out it's a small wall uh
Daniel Pino is concerned about the
traffic pattern there and W wanted and
through an email to us and to me uh
wanted to know if there's an alternative
space to display the clock he's
concerned about the the traffic pattern
there my um my
my answer to that would be would it be
possible when the new community Senior
Center is completed and little use is
being made of the community room could
we display that clock which is
significant and over
history um in the on a wall in the in
the old community
room as an alternative to the
library okay um
does any of the members of the board of
Selectmen have any issue with
potentially displaying that in the
community
room um I don't know if I if I want to
say yes or no now did we I don't think
we've ever talked about because it's a
little early now the Community Center
Senior Center isn't you know furnished
and we haven't talked about what we're
taking from the other community room so
what's Jeff What's the timing on uh um
you know where's the clock right now is
it at somebody's house no it's it's
there's a Master Clock um repair man
whatever
restorer um his name is Mr Crump and we
have the case in the basement of the
library uh but the works have been sent
to Mr Crump um art lient who's very
familiar with the burnap
clocks um suggested some repairs to be
made and that's where it's at now uh
this has been ongoing for probably
better than a year um I kind of the
board and myself are insisting that we
have a contract with him um and I spoken
to Eric about having Dennis O'Brien um
draw a contract before we even think
about displaying the clock so
everybody's on the same page page and
it's a legal document
and when the clock when the clock's done
being repaired what's is there a time
timeline on when that that'll be
done um no the last email that I
received is that Mr Crump is having some
personal problems that it is ready but
we at the
library the feel that that we want a
contract in place before before it's set
up and display
so that everybody's clear about our our
responsibilities and his
responsibilities okay could you take a
picture of the clock the clock tower so
that we understand what we're talking
about and then um if possible and if
anybody on the board doesn't mind if we
put this on our agenda for next month so
that we could understand the size Jeff
of this and um the only other question I
have is did you speak with Scott yman
about displaying it at the Museum
no I have not um but I have concerned
with
um with a
$40,000 uh clock that's working and and
and what understood understood so that's
I got it that has to be stored inside
Jeff excuse me that has to be stored
inside probably right most most
definitely yeah and its value is 40,000
right now I believe it's 30 8,000 it's
one of a kind yes uh
cin his Daniel burnap and the library is
burnap Skinner Library as you probably
all know so it's significant to to the
library history to Handover history he
had a clock shop in South Windsor or
East Windsor um but this clock has on
the dial on the face and over which is
unusual and rare and our art lient has
um said that he will do a presentation
on the history of the clock maker the
the person that trained him that came
over from England that avoided the Tea
Party in Boston set up shop in norch
there's a lot of history and centry has
a Daniel burnap clock in their library
with centry on from my understanding I
haven't seen it there's also another
burnap clock in the connectic Historical
Society in um Elizabeth Street in
Hartford yeah I think picture would be
would be helpful just so we can see the
size of it and I we probably should talk
as a board coming up soon but what we
want to keep in that community room and
you know what what we're going to use it
for and then that'll help us decide on a
bunch of a bunch of things so is there
like a is there like a case Jeff that
they put it in or some kind of
protective something no no it just needs
to get secured to a wall um it has holes
in the back of the case that you access
from the inside and then it just has to
be anchored to a
wall so that the the community center
walls aren't are they they're it's not
sheetrock right those are it is yes it
is Sheetrock in
there the new the new community
center about the old one
right you're talking the town hall
community room yes yeah want to put it
in there the town hall community room is
a concrete block wall concrete wall yeah
so we if it does does go there it has to
it has to be secured and stay wherever
it is for a long time because right you
need certain sheet rock or sorry
concrete screws to get into those walls
yes okay I yeah I think I think if you
can get us a picture Jee that would be
helpful so that we can talk a little
more next month and and and we also need
to talk as a board what the function of
that room's going to be for spacing and
and other things too so that'll
hopefully start that conversation too
Diane granier pointed out that this may
not you know that he is opposed to
having it displayed in the library
because of the traffic pattern and he's
been advised by Mr Crump and art lient
that it probably shouldn't go there
because of the traffic that it might and
and that's understood Jeff what we need
to do is we need to evaluate it as a
board and just you know we have to get
Eric's opinion and understand where it
can go we would love to take it I I
understand from a historical perspective
it would be great we just got to know
where it's going what level of of
traffic it's going going to get so that
it's viewed and um give us a month I
mean it doesn't sound like you're going
to have it fixed ready up and I mean no
let us sit there and see what we can do
and we'll keep it on the agenda for next
month and we'll get you an answer on
that thank you all right
um uh did you have uh some more
information that you needed
to um one
second so you were going right into the
Garden Club That's What I Call that's
correct yeah so you can keep
going um yeah I'm asking permission to
put up a fence uh around the garden I've
already uh spoken with that King from
the Eastern Highland and he has said
that as long as I stay five feet away
from the leion field with any of the
posts in the fence um he doesn't have a
problem with it where I am within 5 feet
he doesn't have a problem with me
putting above ground posts without any
hole sitting on the top of the
ground um I have already secured funding
for all the materials uh through uh
Andover Elementary School uh
Grant uh so that we I wouldn't need a
line item for the $2500 for the
materials I just need permission to put
it up
uh does anyone have any issues I mean
there was information in our packet
regarding the school and the grant
they're
discussing um anybody have any um
problems with u what Jeff is asking to
do I mean we talked about it last one no
any
issues you need a motion great idea yeah
okay a motion to uh let uh Jeff and the
Garden Club put up a fence around the
garden and the fence going to be paid by
the
school by a grant from the school and
that the
fence fence be put in where it's
specified that it can be put
in a second okay any further
discussion all those in favor I
I I okay
oh there were lights in
here
um okay Jeff keep going rain collection
3B um yes
um Grayson and Dave G
ganian um have donated a 550 gallon
water collection um tank is already in
place behind the
shed uh we we really need to put a um
gutter on that shed and it would be
stupid to put gutters and water
collection into that tank before putting
a new roof on the shed then this goes
back the last year's $1,000 that was cut
from our
budget
okay so you're now asking for the
$2500 that was air marked for the fence
to be air marked now for the shed roof
and the gutters
I'm only asking for
$1,000
okay um and then and then the the rest
of the budget request for for
$1,375 of and the and that should be
itemized in the material you got in the
first
packet okay but that's next year's
budget you're asking for $1,000 do
somewhere out of this budget as soon as
I as soon as we can get it to that
supply to the to the Garden understood
Eric
um is there any area that we might be
able to
obtain ,000 for the Garden Club and the
roof and the water collection now Jeff
just so we understand this would this
would
avoid hoses from the new community
center not necessarily uh we've already
I've already gotten um permission from
the fire commissions to put uh gutters
and water collection on their
shed
uh it depends on how much it rains
whether we have both $500 1500 gallons
of water um vessels you know accumulated
but we may have to fill fill the
containers uh with a hose
okay we could do that periodically but
we could do that on the weekend so
there's no interference in activities
that are being run at that at the new
building that that is correct we were
running a hose from the fire department
and and running it out and picking it up
every time we needed to water the
gardens okay the the tank is the I'm
going to be hard Plumbing that 550
gallon tank to the irrigation system uh
next week and we have a submersible pump
that goes in the tank that will supply
the pressure and um and distribute the
water to the irrigation system at the
beds I was I was a little um when I was
reading your documentation I thought you
had a thousand
gallons that you were going to have
access to we are I've we supposedly have
been given the Hartford Foundation Grant
uh for the Thousand gallons of supply of
of storage and and that would also that
Grant would also cover the gutters and
collection system on the on the fire
shed but that that grant money isn't
that Grant due in May so you wouldn't
get that money until that is correct I
wouldn't get that until probably June
and I wouldn't get my budget money until
what July 1 or something okay so so just
so I understand this is where I was a
little confused so you want the money to
do a 500 gallon tank
the roof the roof and and to gut roof
and gutters to fill the 500 gallon tank
yes and then you applied for a a
hardford for uh H foundation for giving
grant to get a thousand gallon tank to
take it off of the fire department roof
correct okay so so you're talking about
having a total of 1500 gallons of water
available for the community garden for
irrigation purposes yes that is our
that's our goal
the issue right now is you're asking for
,000 out of the current Year's budget to
put a new roof and gutters on the
shed for the community guards yes okay
Eric uh is there where could we
potentially obtain $1,000 out of our
current
budget if we wanted to do this
Eric did you leave
us I have another question in the
meantime go ahead uh Jeff the shallow
well pump that you're talking about in
your in your write up yes is that a new
well pump that you're looking to put
in the that was part of the foundation
Harford Foundation Grant yes shell well
pump and extra all tank and that is
included in the grant money but that
goes in the
tank it's not something that goes in the
ground it goes in the tank corre or or
it goes you know in the shed and then we
we pump we pump from from from one tank
to the next tank and then out to the
Garden we'll be using a
submersible um like you know like a um
submersible pump uh one one uh
horsepower pump in the 550 gallon tank
to pump it out to the Garden understood
so I don't want to put this out there
but I have to ask this
question if if you don't get the if
you're not receiving the grant
money will that stop you from finishing
the project for the gutters and
everything else if we I is my
understanding and there's not any
Clarity on it that I've been given that
we've already got been been Ed for the
grant but uh one person says it's for
$2,350 and um another person in in in
the advisory says that we're getting
2,935 which was the original estimate
for the uh for the collection on on the
fire
Firehouse okay Eric are you with us I am
with you okay
Eric is there a potential to obtain or
to
um re prioritize $1,000 that we could
potentially provide to the community
guard yes you can take it out of your
line item for Board of Select salaries
since you have made a decision that you
do not want to draw a salary as a select
person so there is $1,200 available from
that fund that you could fund Community
Gardens if you so choose perfect does
anyone have a major problem with that
since I am I am foregoing the $11,200 of
of money thank you Jeff Maguire yeah yes
okay no we got to vote for it so it's
not it's not on me but it's available so
um well then I'll make a motion that we
um
we move $1,000 from the board of
Selectmen salary line on them to the
community garden to uh allow for the
community garden to re-roof the shed and
put gutters on the shed to provide for
water collection for irrigation I'll Che
all right further
discussion while in favor I all right
thank you very much uh Jeff I think
you're uh are you done anything I'm done
and I wanted to thank everybody so very
much this has been a been a a great
project and I appreciate your generosity
okay um thank you Jeff um uh and and
Jeff just as a side thing make sure that
um you know it's very generous of AES
also to provide uh some grant funding to
assist um um please make sure that you
work closely with them in a prioritize
the safety of the children especially
with the still uh construction area
that's uh going on down there most
definitely that's our first and utmost
concern all right thank you thank you
all right uh uh item four appointments
Eric do we have any appointments that
were uh need to be made aware of none
that I know of and no resignations that
I know of all right item five
resignations none uh item six town admin
admin ministrator report Eric okay so
what I want to do instead of giving you
a traditional administrator report I
just want to give you an update of what
projects are going on right now um and
allow you to ask any specific questions
about that um I'm going to start with
bridge and roadwork projects uh number
one Bunker Hill Bridge
replacement um that road is scheduled to
be closed and construction starts
February 15 uh 2025
so basically over next winter that
project uh will begin um lill Bridge
replacement is just about at the 30%
design phase we've been told to expect
the 30% design phase meetings um which
is where the basically the major
parameters for the design will be set in
place in the next couple of
months um I am still pushing for them to
to consider the light at Hy as part of
that project um I suspect the answer
will be no but I will continue to push
it um you know because frankly the the
traffic the current traffic warrants for
that don't uh don't meet the dot
standards so I don't think they're going
to do it but I will try um Lake Road at
B Sola um we're going back and forth
between myself the engineer and Franklin
which is the company that originally
surveyed that um we're trying to reduce
our costs a little bit by using the
existing survey we have instead of going
back out and you know regathering the
data so it looks like that will be
successful um again the goal would be
not to start construction this summer
but to start construction the following
summer on that
so you want us to interrupt you as we
you speak or would you like to us to
write this stuff down if we have
question uh why don't after each subject
you ask the questions before we move on
to the next subject okay so if you have
questions about bunker or lill now would
be
fine good okay so I'll go is is it are
we talking um Bunker Hill just the
bridge or are we talking Bunker Hill the
the Culvert issue
so the cover issue has been pretty much
resolved um it took a lot of material um
but Public Works has basically completed
the Culvert repair um you know at Bunker
Hill so so that issue has been
resolved um you know it was basically
just a big scour pocket that they had to
fill they filled it with really large
Rock like 30 inch uh you know 30inch
aggregate basically and then backfilled
it with smaller Stone um I have pictures
I don't have them ready to show you
right now but I can show you pictures of
that repair um and I know Jay went back
to the wetlands agent today uh and
showed them the the repair so we get
make sure Wetlands you know is is aware
of it I mean they were notified that we
were doing it and the agent signed off
on it beforehand but you know now that
it's completed uh he went back to the
agent and you're satisfied with that
repair for what we need to do moving
forward yeah that looks like they did a
good job okay uh that would be helpful
if you also um I know you have open
projects that you're going to update us
on in the the residents on but also um
update us on completed projects or
things that you've gotten completed in
the last month it would also help us
sure
okay okay um so Lake Road at Bola I mean
the the goal is to be uh in construction
not this summer The Following summer so
that the bills Bridge the next two
fiscal years so we have enough money to
pay for the completed uh completed
repairs or completed replacement so so
what happened to the data the prior data
somebody lost the data or what Happ you
were talking about
data so the data is not lost so we have
Franklin surveyed it um and we are using
that data but um what we have is we have
all the PDF files um and what Franklin
has to share with the engineering firm
is the actual engineering data that went
into that you know um so so that will
take take place um we're just working
out getting those files transferred it's
not a problem um you know I had asked
that they consider using that survey
because when they originally gave us a
project outline they had you know a full
survey and I went back to nlj and said
this really isn't appropriate we already
have we paid for a survey use that data
so that's kind of what we're going going
with um while they would prefer to use
their own surveyors and their own survey
data there's no reason they can't use
the pre-existing data if that answers
that
question okay and uh we have we've
already talked about uh what is on the
docket for this year for roadwork
projects um you know the other one
that's going we're going to have to
address sooner rather rather than later
is there's a really big spring in Aspen
Drive that this last year or two when
it's been really wet you know we've had
like an artisian well coming out the
middle of one of our roads on on Aspen
Drive so we're going to need to address
that that will be one of the extra
projects um presuming that we do not do
the full parking lot uh reclaim and
repave for the school
then at a minimum we're going to replace
the Basin tops and do the the uh some of
the basins need a little bit of patching
so Jay is scheduling that also um and
then we' repave around the Basin so it's
flatter um if that does get reclaimed
then obviously that would be part of
that project and we wouldn't do it
independent uh multi-use pathway for
Route
316 that's still a in grant funding um
We are continuing to do the design work
on designing that um using the the money
we already have for the Congressional uh
or legislative set
aside we know about that
Eric
um I would think we'll have an answer in
the next couple of months um but I also
think at this
point you know I think it will get
funded it's not a question of whether it
will because the reality is for the
first time ever they had less
applications to that program than they
have funding available so short of
anything you know drastic happening now
that funding is is staggered so it
doesn't mean we're going to be able to
tap that money right away but so we
might not actually get assigned this
year we might not get assigned a 25 26
budget year to actually be able to spend
that money but we will be you know
allotted it um so 90% more than 90% sure
we'll have the money for that which is
kind of a cool thing uh Community
Center um that's going relatively well
um I think there's no question we'll be
in and up and running by July 1 I
suspect it'll probably be a little
earlier than that but uh but that's
coming along fairly
well um next up the the HVAC updates to
the town hall and fire department both
of those are scheduled to begin
somewhere around uh the last week of
this month and expected to take between
two and three weeks to complete both
projects once they got started on it um
and then there's got to be some masonary
repair done after that um the trenching
for the pipes for the gas and electrical
Jay is anticipating starting on that
Monday now that they've got the uh
repair to the Culvert on uh on Bunker
Hill done so I'm guessing that project
will take at least a week maybe a little
bit longer to complete the trenching um
but it should be basically in place and
the tanks they've said we basic we have
to give them two weeks notice when we
want to drop the tanks so the goal is
get the piping in get that buried
install the tanks um and then they can
just run the gas line through the
existing conduit so we should be in
reasonably good shape the other good
thing is it will be late enough in the
heating season that there's no way no
reason we can't go heat pump only not
the likelihood that we would need
propane backup is pretty small uh during
the transition so the timing for that
works out pretty well so electrical
upgrades to the town hall
are um the the scope of work of what we
authorized uh a couple months ago is
largely
complete um we're transition we have the
new backup uh you know automatic
transfer switch in place although it's
only you know manually operated at the
moment because until we put the piping
in we don't have the control
runs um so but it will function um the
old stab block panel is removed the
whole place is cleaned up um and we went
through and we ripped out all the old
wiring um and they were also managed to
finally track down the fold that was
preventing the phone line in the
elevator for working properly so all
things considered I think that project
came out really well um the one thing we
are going to have to deal with is they
uh when the the addition was built on
the Town Hall in uh what was that
2008 they really
undersized the connectors to the
elevator um so there is going to have to
be something done to address that um
they either have to downsize the
breakers um which I don't think that
will work because I suspect the elevator
will just trip in a fault or they're
going to have to run new cable to the
elevator um so I'm trying to get uh um
get you know Lenco to to figure out what
has to happen to make that right because
that's that's super not code compliant
um everything else is in there is pretty
good and we're basically prepped for uh
you know for the HVAC install so I think
that that's been very successful I've
been really happy uh with that um
Athletic Field
upgrades those we're still waiting on
the committee to come back with the
final set of recommendations and if we
pick a date for a town meeting in a
couple weeks what have to get that
committee to give their explanation for
that because that is one of the items
that we have to go to town meeting
because it does require uh you know a
town contribution the the town's on the
hook for 20% of the total
project um so that's the athletic field
steep Grant um Public Works fuel
delivery system upgrade that's on hold
till the next budget cycle
um AES bleacher
repair so there was a little bit of a a
difference of opinion between the town
and the school regarding the project for
doing the
flooring uh redoing the gymnasium
flooring AES really wanted the flooring
under the bleachers addressed
also so to do that we basically removed
the bleachers from the wall um and
examined the flooring behind and we've
now sanded separately the flooring just
under the
bleachers and uh and that has been you
know coated um so Friday the bleachers
will get moved back in place and when
the rest of the floor gets done it will
be uniform including what's under the
bleachers so uh how did how did all of
the the additional Coatings go came out
really well that's far as I know it's
okay I did not look at that project
today I looked at it yesterday it looked
really good um I know they were coming
back into put two more coats on today
Scott did you see it after yeah I I got
a picture of it after
Y and really good and it was dried
already okay and so when they put the
bleachers back they're going to level
all the bleachers out and fix all of the
mechanisms under those bleachers to make
them operate prop L and level properly
yeah it's it's going to re be
reattached okay the bleachers are all
done
also okay the new seats are on the
bleachers so um that should be all set
when school starts up Monday so that
shouldn't be an
interruption and then the next time when
they come back in in the summer they
won't have to move the
bleachers um I've also asked for an
estimate from Lenco on what it's going
to cost to uh you know to do the
installation of the downdraft fans uh
for that facility so hopefully I'll have
that um relatively soon um it's really
just where the issue that's going to
come in is where the initi where the
fans are powered from now um will have
to change
because the basically the control the
control mechanisms for the fans you know
have a maximum run from the controller
to the the individual fans and they're
designed to run pairs of fans so uh Rick
is going back to the company and asking
them basically for an engineering
solution to how to run all six sets of
the fans off of a single controller um
so hopefully we'll have more information
on that in the
next um you know couple of weeks we have
a switch available on the wall it's not
being
used right one dead switch there yeah
one dead
switch okay is it really a dead switch
or are the lights that that goto burned
out and have never been replaced I can't
tell you that but I think that's what
the janitor thinks he thinks it's just
lights that have never been changed
because it's too high for anybody to get
to okay um which we could address when
Lenco comes in or whoever comes in um
you know with the
lift uh it would be great if you could
have Lenco go look at those lights just
to sit there and see if they're LED and
then I would assume we'd have some
eversource program that we should be
able to participate if they're not LEDs
and haven't been switched
recently write that down here I
all right we're good
uh um AES Plumbing design and repair I
really have not made a lot of progress
on that I still haven't really gotten
more info from uh Rick Wilson so I'm
still hoping to get that um I had a
brief
conversation um with an MEP that our
town engineer
recommended um but that me said that was
not really his area of focus and he
referred me to another MEP at their same
firm so I'm going to reach out to them I
want to get at least one or two others
has the Board of Education identified
which projects they want done first as
far as I know not they were going to
discuss it at their next Board of
Education meeting okay nor have they
actually transferred the money that was
excess in their budget to the town
okay
um so the senior Transportation new
garage project you know I went back and
forth with uh
decd I finally filed some paperwork with
them it's now awaiting the decd
commissioner
signature
um you know just one step in a long
chain um I still don't have a positive
response from shipo I did poke them you
know two or three weeks ago to review
the documentation they were given on the
old
building um they had not reviewed it at
that point so I'm going to have to push
them a little a little bit more um on
that and uh which what is the state
agency which state agency related to
that project the state agency that's
basically identif this as a uh a
rebuild oh that's different the decision
that it's a
rebuild that is the Department of
Labor
okay
um and that's basically it for for the
major projects we have going right now
um any questions from you all as a board
kind of on on what we're doing and where
we're going
today uh from my standpoint what is your
um u based upon the situation with
Public Works uh what are you looking at
uh being able to accomplish in the
spring and the summer or what you're
what are you going to have to curtail so
we're all aware of what's going to end
up happening
so we do have an executive session
scheduled at the end of the meeting if
we want to talk about specifics of what
we're going to have available for Public
Works Personnel maybe we do it there um
I would say we're probably going to end
up one person
short um on that department for a
significant fraction of the spring into
early summer
um and and that's fine we can do it then
um that's fine anybody else have any
other questions for Eric related to any
of the ongoing projects or completed
projects and Eric please always remember
to
um you've got to let us all know the
completed projects you've got to let the
public know what's getting accomplished
because you know we talk about a lot of
things but you you and public works and
um we have been getting things done I
think it's appropriate in these meetings
that you let everyone know that these
are projects that have been completed in
the last month
so understood
understood anybody
else
okay all
right well we are going to move on to uh
old business uh 7A uh the Joshua trust
discussion so let's start there
um John uh we're going to let you go
there was some information provided to
us later um we'll let you go and then
we'll sit there and ask you questions
and sit there and see what we can do
thank you um yeah yes uh this is the I
think the fifth time I've been in front
of the board um in the last six months
I'm getting to know you quite well by
face anyway um you'll remember that the
last at the last meeting um there was an
AB butter um Sher mashad who lives on
Skinner Hill Road she spoke earlier this
evening um who voiced some concerns with
regard to the parking lot location on
Skinner Hill Road um Bill pen and I met
with her following the board meeting as
you asked us to um we had a good
conversation with her but what came out
of us loud and clear and what you heard
a little bit earlier is that she had
serious um safety concerns living so
close to the parking lot that had been
proposed on Skinner Hill Road she asked
us and that and she stated she believed
Wheeling Road would be a be a better
option we had not specifically looked at
that option partly because the um the
Joshua's trust property does not have
any Frontage on wheeling Road that's
that's that would be that's completely
Town property um that uh that has the
frontage on wheeling road we told her
we'd look at it um and Bill and I went
and looked at that location and I've got
to say from our perspective it's better
in every respect and let me let me run
through that quickly um and and in no
particular order I'll just tick off the
four major considerations first safety
um Skinner Hill is a busy road I think
someone in Long Hills I think someone
mentioned that earlier um Wheeling road
is it's I don't know what the traffic
numbers are but I wouldn't be surprised
if it's a tenth of the traffic that Long
Hill Skinner Hill Road sees um the site
lines on on uh Wheeling Road are
excellent on Skinner Hill Road you're
coming up over that rise and and down
the hill um they leaves a lot to be
desired there and and the traffic speeds
I think are probably fairly high
too secondly constructibility
um many many of Joshua's trust
properties have simple pull-offs rather
than full parking lots and this uh
Wheeling Road lends itself well to this
if you look at the photos that I
provided for the packet um I don't have
a very big car um but you can see that I
easily managed to get all four of my
wheels off of the road that's that just
would not be possible on Skinner Hill
Road so that the the possibility of of
simple pulloff parking on the side of
the road is there um and if there's
concerns about um the edge of the
pavement so on that can be we've
addressed that in other towns by
bringing in as crushed asphalt something
like that to bolster the side so it can
be constructed if you still like the IDE
aide of the uh the pulloff parking lot
the full-size parking
lot it's tailor made for it there is an
existing paved parking lot um that
serviced a house that was in that area
originally honestly I think with a leaf
blower and a shovel um and about 45
minutes we could we could create a paved
parking lot on that property for no cost
at all um and that is the third
consideration is cost it would
I don't believe it would be prudent for
either the town or Joshua's trust to
spend 8 to $6,000 on an engineered
parking lot on Skinner Hill Road when an
option that's this much better exists
right around the corner on wheeling that
also provides safety um improvements
finally the fourth one is probably the
hardest um impact on the neighbors um
Joshua's trust has Trails on
approximately 40 properties and I would
have to say on approximately 40
properties at some
point on the property the trail goes
within view of a house um this is
Connecticut you can't put a trail in
without seeing a house at some point
that's just the way it is um this this
property has the advantage the the
location that we are talking about here
has the advantage that there are no
immediately adjacent neighbors to the
property to the parking area that we're
discussing um there is a in the packet
I've shown a picture with my car in the
front and the closest house in the
distance in the back around the corner
um that's looking one way looking the
other way you can't see any houses for a
long long way um and Jeff's correct Jeff
Murray's correct through the woods you
can see all the way through to the to
the other side this time of year you can
see you you can see from Wheeling Road
over to is it Shad blow Lane um I don't
know all the names of the roads but you
can see correct you John in the summer I
can see the same thing I see the that's
fair I mean it's not it's not a half
mile or anything there's you know oh
yeah it's this Trail you're proposing is
25 feet from the back of my
property yes it is it's back the back of
my shed I don't think that's correct jef
but what we could do um what I would
suggest we do I mean we we just think
this we think it's a better option in in
every respect um Jeff you mentioned
earlier I just want to make sure the
record's correct the um part of this
Trail is on Joshua's trust property part
of it's on the town we have re we have
realigned the trail to to bring it out
to Wheeling road that change made no
difference in the amount of Trail that's
on Joshua's trust property it's exactly
what it was in the earlier version yeah
but now John it brings it down through
the wetlands that we all walked through
when we did the walkthrough yeah uh well
let me let me be clear on that the the
section that was on Joshua's tou
property is the same as it was before
the change now is the trail needs to get
from Wheeling road to connect to the
loop that I walked with the Porta
selectman so you can see that straight
section we try to put it right down the
middle to keep it as far away from the
houses as possible this is the best if
we're gonna if the parking is going to
be on wheeling Road this is the best we
can do this is your property this is
Town property it's your
decision um if you decide that that that
this Trail is good for the residents of
Andover vote for it
um if you decide this is not a good idea
you don't want to see it vote against it
we'll we'll go build Trails somewhere
else um but we we think we think this is
a great thing for the residents so we
are willing to help you with this um if
that's what you want to do um the
decision's yours I I expect we are
probably if I guess what I'd like to do
tonight if it's
possible is either tell us you're
interested in proceeding with looking at
this or tell us you'd like to end it
right now
now if you're interested in proceeding
and looking at this what I'd like to do
is meet with the board of Selectmen at
Wheeling Road and show them what we're
talking about here so that you can see
it for
yourselves um we also I think it would
be appropriate for us to talk to your
Wetland Commission because as Jeff said
this does cross a wet area we would have
to put in I call it a bog Bridge it's a
series of 4x4 Timbers with 2 by6 planks
across them you probably walked on other
trails that Ed an approach like that um
we crossed many many Wetlands on our
properties in that manner and I I think
the Wetland commission would be okay
with it but we'd be happy to run it by
them um so let me just understand
um Joshua's trust is not interested in
putting the parking lot in the entrance
on Skinner Hill
Road that's correct and so that that's
off the table it's yes it's off the
table and in an Ideal World we would we
would have looked at all the options up
front um but we were really focused on
Skinner Hill Road because of the
frontage issue okay um and looking at
your
map that you you where you picked your
parking spot out there's a there's an
earlier
entrance just just so I can understand
an earlier point of access that would be
available on wheeling you decided
against that
to keep it as far away from any houses
that are on woodern I'm just asking a
question we were sensitive to the house
that's on wheeling actually when we
located that lot we tried it we there
are two things going two things going on
there is probably probably right first
thing right through my backyard this
comes right I get I'm just asking a
question I just want to know I look I
look at the map and I I look at that
house and I go it's not as close as
the why don't you U please share your
screen with the map if you could so we
can all look at the map this is going to
be closer to my house than it was closer
to Sherry's because I went and walk this
property after we had this discussion
with Sherry and I went to go see for
myself Jeff I I know what what I'm
saying is this where it's proposed is
closer to houses than it was before
understood just just please I know
conversation let the conversation play
out so we all understand what we're
talking about okay I think you're
looking at it now yeah so so where that
where if you move your P up to the
corner up a little higher just go up
higher right keep going keep going keep
going right
there why can't you entrance just move
the trail over there and move it over to
that side of that area if it's going to
be on street parking a pull off
parking wherever the town would like to
put it whatever makes sense is fine with
us
okay
um uh I know that Jeff Murray even
before this was proposed was very
adamant as to uh he wanted to buy in
from everyone I'm not I'm not in favor
of
um in in in doing these types of
any anything we do in public government
I mean you're never going to get 100%
buying I mean I don't care where you go
there's going to be someone that's going
to not want to do something I mean
listen we built a community center and
not everyone wanted us to build the
community center in the same spot so
that's life and I don't I'm not a
believer in um you don't have to make
everybody happy and and we'll never make
everyone happy we're trying to make
everybody happy and we're trying to do a
good thing Joshua trust is trying to do
a good thing and I greatly appreciate
what they're doing
um so I would ask the other members of
the board if they want to sit there and
and entertain Wheeling um if Skinner is
off the table that's where I would have
built this I would have just built it as
it was originally proposed with four
parking lots understanding that I am not
GNA make Sher happy and I apologize for
that but
that's what I would have done um so I'm
G to ask the and and I know Jeff
Murray's answer so we're not I'm sorry
I'm sorry but I just got this at the
last minute Jeff and no no no no and
Jeff Jee we're not even gonna ask you
because we understand and just just to
add for the record Jeff my neighbor
Andre that lives to the north of me is
also very opposed to this and then
there's also a house if you look where
the text is down there where it says GSA
there was another home right there okay
and and there three homes very close je
I I do understand it and I appreciate it
and and to be really honest um we would
know your opinion and your answer and
where you would go so I'm asking the
other three
members what they want to do and then we
can give Joshua's trust and
answer so I'm gonna go through each one
of them would you would it be any better
Jee if you put it all the way to the
northeast of the Town property and
started the trail in there well I think
at that point we're going to impact the
neighbor on the other side the north
side yeah his his lot is pretty this
house is pretty far away isn't it but
the way this map is drawn it's it's it
looks a lot bigger than it really is
because I can see my that neighbor's
house across the parcel I can see the
neighbor's house from my backyard yeah
that's how that's how tight that area is
and I can see the cars going up and down
wheeling and you can see my house from
Wheeling Okay so you can distinct you
can still see your neighbor's house to
the Northeast that closest one right
there and I have a shed right on the
property line that's going to be within
25 feet of this
Trail and people can just freely walk up
to it and you know it's okay security
concern so so let's let's sit there and
I'm gonna I'm gonna try to do this quick
quickly so we can all sit there and deal
with it
so I'll start with you Ann because
you're at the top what would you like to
do an um I like the idea of it coming
off of Wheeling because I think it's
going to be less even less people seeing
the parking area and probably fewer
people just jumping on the trail I think
it'll cut down on the number of people
in there it also has if you put it where
that pee is it's already that little
paved area where it had had a house um I
know myself I drive down Wheeling once
in a while try to look through there I
cannot see houses through from Wheeling
Road except in the winter I might be
able to spot one house and that's all
it's very hard to see through there in
the summer I can't see more than my
neighbor immediate neighbor's house that
the woods are so deep so
thick um and you can see my house you
can see my house barely in the summer
barely all right so Ann is I am for the
my the question is we used to the
original Loop there was two Loops
originally we're not two Loops anymore
sorry yeah I'm not succeeding here hang
on you want to answer for that one yeah
I'd be interested so what we we
eliminated that second loop again due to
con uh it
was where that Loop was located came up
and almost over Sher mad's house so so
she was concerned about people looking
into her backyards it was a legit it was
legitimate so we so we removed that
second um that second
Loop so there's still a trail that does
go up to um Skinner or not there is and
it's important that there be a trail let
me tell you why that is you you may
remember and I don't know if did we walk
all the way out to Skinner Hill when we
did the walk with you you remember where
we walked 40 feet or something we walked
right up against the stone wall so we
were about a foot from Shere mad's
property line when we did that walk
that's the only way in there right now
without getting yourself scraped up so
the by bringing it out to Skinner Hill
Road you're actually reducing the impact
on the neighbor because people are going
to find their way in there you know once
there's once there's a known Trail in
there people are going to find their way
in there from Skinner Hill Road one way
or another um and we didn't want them to
be going up along the ston wall next to
the property line
okay so I'm going to ask the question
that
um when Scott and I did it we walked
right through all of the
the yeah we walked through the brush we
walked through the you know I don't
think we got anywhere near sher's house
did we Scott no no okay I I applaud we
didn't we didn't walk with you but we
yeah I I applaud your uh your fortitude
but if you just walked over by the stone
wall you would have you would have
zipped right in without getting scraped
up so why can't you just put the trail
down through the pucker brush that's
where it's GNA
go yeah that's where the trail was going
they entered in a different way than we
did Scott we entered through the brush
through the the garbage through walking
that way and then around so um okay
there no way you can just put it away
from Sherry's house and use that parking
over
there there there's got to be a way
there's lot of lot of land there and I
know that property really well really
well okay I've been in there extensively
me and Eric me and Jeff me and blah blah
blah over the
years it come it it does come down to
the to the cost and the constructibility
why spend eight to $6,000 on a parking
lot when you've got s an option that's
got so many advantages around the corner
including cost including safety well I I
to be clear um that when this first came
up Jeff Murray was you know I'm all for
the trail also but Jeff Murray was
vehemently opposed to Any Trail coming
in from Wheeling Hill Road just to put
it on the
record which Jeff Maguire also stated
tonight he did and if we have a neighbor
down at Skinner Hill that's against it
too maybe it's just not the best place
to put this because we we have two big
Parcels we have one big parcel behind
the transfer station where there's no
adjoining houses to bother us and we
have a giant parcel behind the school
that we have existing trails that we
even have trouble getting people to
maintain as it is yeah but that's the
point yeah know but if we have a
community center in a in a in a focal
area behind the school should we just
work on maintaining that Network and
having a good trail Network back there
where we don't impact anybody instead of
trying to shoehorn Something in where
we're going to impact one person on one
side
or somebody else on the other that's the
in a tough places because of a selectman
it puts me in a tough spot well and you
can recuse yourself Jeff honestly I mean
and and that's the truth so and I
haven't sat there and pressed that
because uh listen the reason to to and
my from my view to sit there and and
continue to discuss this and to continue
to try to find a solution is because you
have Joshua trust that has a property
that's willing to do the maintenance
work to to offset the town doesn't have
to do it so if we find a way to do this
without impacting significantly so this
is
where I look back at Skinner Hill and I
go I understand Sherry being concerned
but I also understood the other
individual being cons concerned uh I was
willing to go forward with it at Skinner
Hill if if Joshua's trust is not willing
to go forward with it at
then we have a whole other set of issues
that we have to address
and the only way I could sit there and
see it working at Wheeling if you you
stuck to the northern side of that that
trail and and and made it work in that
manner because um and and I don't know
if the maps are correct but it doesn't
look like that property is that close to
that line
um that's the only way that I would sit
there and see us potentially moving
forward but Jeff I also understand what
you're saying you also said it you were
very clear in the beginning of this
process that you did not want to sit
there and see it come in from Wheeling
Road uh from the wetlands perspective
and also for issues related to the
properties that uh the the homeowners
that are close to you know it is much
narrower area than what we're dealing
with on the opposite side from my
perspective because we have Joshua's
trust and yeah our property together so
why it's much wider down at that end
than it is up at this end I don't see
why Jeff that we can't move the trail
aways from Sherry's house so there's and
put the brush between Sherry's house and
and the trail and nobody's ever going to
even know the trails there I don't
understand why there's a issue with that
house yeah um so
um Paula I'm going to have I'm to
you I'm I'm trying to look at this from
from the resident standpoint the people
that own the houses there I I love the
idea I love I love having more Trails
but I think if we I was I was in favor
of having the um the parking lot in the
other location not not
Wheeling so I'm looking at it as I love
the idea but I think
we're yeah I think we're trying to make
it work and it's it's just going to
aggravate a lot more people and I agree
with you Jeff you're never going to
appease everybody in the masses but when
people buy a house in a certain area
where they're thinking you know they
have privacy and then you stir the pot
with a trail it gets people upset so I'm
trying to put myself in those people's
shoes and I I don't know that I can
support it on wheeling and and I wasn't
with with it you know I I'm always
trying to put myself in everybody's
shoes and look at it that way you know
so nice um just I I do I do look at
Property Owners though and I even look I
would tell Jeff Murray the same thing
you bought a property that Abed uh you
know things can happen but but Jeff to
be clear it was state property at the
time yeah and it was and now it was
turned over to the town now we' have a
change of plans the state could have
built a highway right behind your house
so there's there's a lot of things
things that could happen and and we all
understand that when we make we make
decisions but I I I'm I'm trying to get
to it so one last one
Scott no you already heard what I
said I don't know if we in favor of this
I'm in favor of Skinner I think they
should move the trail I would vote
Yes and it stays away from the
neighbor's property exactly
yeah I was always in favor of that okay
all right
quick question and I'm in favor of the
BET trayal completely I I want to use
that property nobody's used it for
anything use
it plan did not impact the
neighbors but we're gonna go with Ann
first Eric and then I'll come to you
which side of the property and proposed
Trail is Sherry's house is it to the
east or to the
West I don't know where her house is
onner to the east
cses to the East do you see where my
cursor is oh wait hang you're killing a
ER I'm killing myself hang on a
sec I can show
you am I sharing that
no you you were you were surf in the
internet it shows right now
that all
right are you sharing from the right
monitor I think
so now it's locked me out and it won't
let me share at
all what are you trying to share can I
guess I can't share from my side
huh the map the same map that was up
there Paula
uh is it just set for the host to share
Eric do you know yeah hang on a
second no except for multiple
participant sharing okay there you go
got
it is that the map we're looking for no
no
no it's in the it's in the regular
package uh the regular package yeah
okay get out of that one no you're in
the secondary this is the secondary
that's a secondary packet yeah no I
guess not so it's it's not we're not to
there yet keep scrolling up up
y That's a new business it's an old
business it's an old bus bus so keep
going
up there's a delay
Sor now go to the top Paul yeah all the
way to the top
okay good okay so is the house that
we're we're concerned with Sherry the
resident's house underneath the corner
of former proposed or the one that's on
Skinner it's on that right edge of that
box Jeff right edge of
it just up from the cursor just up a
little bit right near the P right there
there that's the one right in there
so and then another thing to think about
with this is where that trail is now the
Red Trail and sher's house there's a big
hill
there yeah to go up the hill but yeah
you would have yeah to get up over the
top to see her house you have to get to
the top of the hill I mean there's 564
feet right next to it that was on the
top of that Rock Ridge yep right okay so
listen
um we we've kind of got our answer
really um the only thing that I I would
ask Joshua trust and I would ask um Jeff
Murray is uh Jeff I would like at some
point in time this month and and I do
understand your issue but I would like
to go and look at Wheeling road with you
just to understand your concerns sure so
we can sit there and do this uh
effectively because I I am coming back
and telling you know the Joshua trust
folks and John and and I I
I still would be I would look at I would
be on Skinner Road because that's what
we initially looked at that's where we
asked but I will go up and look at
willing road I'll go up and look at it
with Jeff Murray and um the rest of the
board of selectman we can all go up and
and look at the different options up on
wheeling to sit there and see if there's
an opportunity for us to do this the
problem in that area Jeff is there's
it's all over Story the timber in there
is all can
and you can see from one house to the
other yeah there's no brush in there
it's pretty much there's no over there's
no under story at all in N should should
we should Scott should we should we be
doing some logging so make the town some
money it's it's an uneven age stand it
it should have young stuff in there it
doesn't have anything it's all over
story The Bad The Bad uh Forest okay
here's here's the other thing if we're
changing
direction should we be I'm I'm not
saying we're moving forward with this
idea but we should be are we talking to
residents different ones that haven't
been notified in the past I mean we
would have to think about that as well
yeah because this is a change of use
it's change of plan you only have you
only have one that hasn't been
communicated with
before unless the other on woodfern
haven't been communicating but Jeff
that's you yeah the other I spoke to the
other neighbor next to me on woodfern
and he's against it as well okay so
extremely against it so um Andre r at uh
next door in
woodfern
um we're going to end up in a bad
position but I I would like to sit there
and look at the Wheeling Road access
just to understand because uh This was
um
I was not prepared for this level of of
information to be provided and so go
ahead Eric you have your hand up so I
just wanted to say one thing Jeff had
indicated that he was concerned that uh
they would be going right by his
shed um for the zoning rigs his shed
can't be within 50 F feet of the
property line anyway because that's his
rear yard setback so there should should
not be anybody unless they're
trespassing on your property anywhere
near your shed well it's closer than 50
feet Eric Eric and it it was there when
I moved in
so okay doesn't make it legal well and
and and listen to me we are not here for
that that we're not here for that let
let's sit there and and try to
understand I mean listen Joshua trust
has been nothing but kind to they have y
so we have to have a little bit of
respect for them and try to give them uh
an answer um the Wheeling Road access is
a new is a new component to this we
should sit there and look at it we
should sit there and make a decision um
but uh I don't think we're prepared
we're not going to give Joshua's truss a
positive answer if we vote on this today
without looking at Wheeling Road I think
we should talk about a date and time
tonight since we all here to see Paula
did you see uh John henkins uh that he
he needs to be let back into the meeting
I let him back in oh there he is he
should be on his way yeah I'm good okay
so
um yeah so maybe we should look at a
date that all of us or most of us can
get together so that next month we we
can talk about this again with visuals
well I I I think what we should do is
is is guarantee we're giving an answer
next month so let's all let's
all
understand um we're g to give Joshua's
trust an answer next month or before
next month because I believe we're GNA
end up having have a meeting related to
the um the charter revision if we all
agree to to do that um we have to do
that within 30 days so uh could be in in
advance of that and what I would ask is
that we communicate outside of the
meeting and set up a time where we can
get up to Wheeling road to sit there and
see what we're talking about where where
these Maps begin and end on wheeling
road so we understand what's up and then
um maybe we have a barbecue at that
Jeff's shed uh and understand how close
uh this is to everything so all right um
John I apologize for not being able to
give you an answer but you you just have
to understand we uh we play the long
game yes that's okay that that land
isn't going anywhere right John right
okay I well Jeff one more thing I want
to make clear is I mean before I said I
would vote for this at all I said I want
to make sure that all the property
owners were were were okay with the
trail is the board taking that position
or is the board gonna make a decision if
we make one property owner or two
Property Owners
upset well with the current Skinner Road
Ro proposal there was one there were
there two property owners that came out
negatively for that location one of them
was appeased because John and and Bill
got out there and walked it with them
and understood they understood their
concerns and they they worked with it
they they met with the other property
owner Sherry and they they discussed her
concerns and and in my mind made
modifications to the the direction of
the trail so that people w not uh
looking in her backyard that's not going
to make Sherry totally comfortable I I I
do understand that but this is a
situation where sometimes you just have
to you got to make a decision if Jeff
Murray if you're not going to vote for
it for any purpose when anyone's not
happy then I understand and respect that
that was not my original position I I'm
looking at it going is it in the best
interest of the community is it an
opportunity for to make use of of of a a
natural resource that we have in our
town because we don't have a lot but if
we can make use of a natural resource
and make you know as jod gross said
people have the ability to go out there
and walk and exercise and feel good
about their their community and their
town I'm all for it I understand that
might not be what Sher wants to hear but
it's not that I'm I'm discounting what
she's thinking I'm just going you're
never going to make everybody happy so
we've G and we may not make the other
land owner happy if we put the trail
down by his house understood so we have
that issue too so I mean go back and
forth that's the problem and so Jeff
just so you understand I might vote and
not make you happy and that doesn't mean
iine you I don't like you it doesn't
mean anything it just means that hey
this is this is what's right for the
overall group not just one person or
another person it's what's right for the
other group that doesn't mean I'm going
to vote for Wheeling Road I'm just
telling you that that
my logic in how I look at this now I'm
kind of upset that Wheeling Road was
brought up here in that I thought we
were going to vote on Skinner on the I
mean that's what I had
envisioned John is telling us that's not
what Joshua trust wants so that puts
something off the table for us really
because Joshua trust is telling us they
don't want to do Skinner so in my
mind the project is in Jeopardy of not
happening at all but I'm willing to look
at wheeling and and come back with
everybody and if we vote for it we vote
for it if we don't we don't so yeah and
I just want to bring up one more point I
remember there was probably about two or
three years ago when we had discussed
with centry about building that through
Trail yeah and the board decided at that
time that we were not interested in
participating in that and if we make
this end to end we're basically going
against what we agreed to do back in I
think it was 2010
so that's under consider that's under
consideration too this this is going to
connect
um Nathan hail with with this Trail and
you're going to get mountain bikers on
it if you open up from Wheeling you're
going to get mountain bikers in there
because the mountain bike trails come
right up to
Wheeling all right so so let's let's um
as a board I'm just recommending that we
give them an answer next month we all
sit there and look at the access points
on wheeling Road and we come back
prepared to provide an answer right so
is everybody in agreement with
that okay um John and Bill thank you
very much and and and listen we we we're
trying not to um make this more
difficult than it needs to be but um
when you have uh people that uh are
buddy neighbors that um have greater
concerns than somebody that lives in a
different part of town and I'm more
willing to open it up then they're more
concerned about their individual issues
and so we're just trying to be
considerate of those issues and and and
do this in an appropriate way so we
apologize to you for not being able to
give you an answer sooner but long long
game yep thanks for your consideration
thank you see you
John um where are we
at so we are still in the old business
right um a community construction update
Eric okay so I'll give you a real brief
you probably all saw the video um so far
the drywalling and the taping um they're
on the third coat and sanding today they
will have some touchup to do on the
drywall so we should be into uh painting
U sometime next week um the excavation
contractors moved on to uh roughing out
where the the new septic tank is going
to be and then the connection and the
the uh enlargement of the leach field um
and they're boxing out over that main
carrying beam down the center of the
basement um so that can be drywalled or
that's in the process of being drywalled
now um there was a little bit of a snafu
in the bathrooms they
located uh some fans in the ceiling that
we had decided we not going to be
mounted in the ceiling we're going to be
mounted in the w walls so they're going
to have to correct that but Leading Edge
is aware of that so generally speaking I
think we're in pretty good shape with
that project it's moving along well um
we've gotten some good feedback from the
community uh regarding that so I think
we're in decent shape
overall okay all right um thank you very
much I appreciate that anybody have any
questions for Eric related to it
no okay uh we're going to move on to uh
7c the discussion of the blight and
level of involvement any updates on that
area Eric I really don't have any
updates on that um there's no nothing
significant happened in the last month
okay uh 7D uh review of the significant
taxpayer list uh everybody got that in
their package that's in your packet on
page
21 okay um um obviously there's a very
few uh one two three
four five six seven businesses out of
the top 20 the other 13 are residences
are you going to share that
Eric can I can if you'd like me to sure
we'd love you
to and so anyway those are Property
Owners Eric what I would like you to get
from the town assess is how do rents and
and since there's only seven taxpayers
that actually have
um okay are you seeing that now yes sir
okay so um the seven properties and and
specifically um you know not the Dollar
General but the Kingsley Drive
apartments the Self Storage the
xtramart uh and Andover Plaza all
collect rents
uh how do those impact their property
values um if at all because um I mean
how many how many units does the
Washington Street U self storage unit
have and how many units does Whispering
Hills have to only be valued at that
amount of money really doesn't
necessarily sit well with me and I'd
like an understanding of that from the
assessor to um
you know look at how the rents that
they're collecting impact their assessed
value because xtramart um charges rent
to the other users of their property
Dunkin' Donuts being specifically one of
them um so uh it's just an understand I
mean me as a resident I'd like to
understand that a little bit more so and
how can MTM corporation that big
building be only Val uh tax are only
$478 which one the the machine shop down
on Route 6
MTM uh I don't even see that no that
you're you're missing that that that B
that building is not assessed at that
that's that's that is what they're
saying they have
in equipment in their building oh right
and the reason for that is Connecticut
being a heavily Democratic state has an
enormous manufacturing incentive and tax
break um so they pay very little taxes
on any of their equipment in that
building and that's that's a state law
that's not a they should have they own
an awful lot of personal property they
just don't pay tax on yeah but that
doesn't I don't I I'm disagreeing with
you because um that shop is full of
machines right corre
okay let's let's let's go back we let's
talk about the top and then we'll go
down to the bottom so the top the top is
buildings everybody so we understand the
top the property owners is the building
on the land the bottom is equipment that
is owned by those businesses
and Scott you're right if MTM
corporations is saying they only have
$70,000 worth of equipment in the
building forget the incen Eric because
what you're doing is 70,000 time 003
doesn't come up to
$478 there are credits that are being
offset to let them pay
$478 the issue that I would have as an
accountant and that Scott is asking as a
like there's equipment in that building
it's only worth $70,000 are you kidding
me yeah that's the issue not not the
number they may have incentives and the
state may allow them to bypass certain
things but what is in the building now
it could be that they bought the
equipment 30 years ago and it's
depreciated and as as those those
reports go down that's fine
but you know just as you're doing Eric
in our town equipment and you're
basically sitting there saying to run an
effective business you have to be able
to age out your equipment and replace it
doesn't seem like we're having an
appropriate counting of those items on
certain things so that's a question
that's just a question I mean because
you're looking at you know Ron ban he
does a lot of work for the community he
does a lot of good work for the
community he's saying that he has
$185,000 worth of equipment that's
excavators everything else okay that
might be
right you look down at the bottom of the
list um you
know has 7-Eleven never changed their
coolers in the last 10 years
they're only showing
$999,000 of
equipment it's that's and and this goes
assessment too that's not the total
value that's what is being assessed even
on our houses we're not assessed 100% of
the value um and and that's correct too
but it's it's different because the way
those property taxes returns work it's
each year you keep a piece of equipment
on there it ages out and depreciates out
so it gets lower and lower and lower
it's a question of they replaced things
and gotten new and and I would tell you
most taxpayers what they'll do is
they'll just leave everything they have
on there and anything new they're not
going to put on there and the only way
that it's caught is if the assessor and
the assessor's office is going in
evaluating those property tax returns
and and evaluating the information
that's provided in those property tax
returns so that's a question that I'm
just asking Eric to evaluate so that we
as a group can understand
what's up because it's
a uh you know other than Connecticut
Light and Power or a gunin gas and Scott
electrics to to a certain extent uh
those are the only significant those are
the only over $10,000 property taxpayers
property owners so personal property
taxpayers in our town that's terrible um
yeah that's terrible Scott electric
crafts has all nice new machines in
there
and MTM has
old machines apparently apparently yeah
um but those are questions for the
assessor and uh how we look at it but
you can easily see what you're saying is
you want the
assessor I would like an understanding I
would like him to sit there to come at
this meeting and because
see I mean you're not you're asking
questions I I certain I no no no no
listen don't don't they 100% correct and
and as you know as I've said to you it's
a u it's very difficult for residents
and and and even elected officials to
understand exactly what occurs within
the assessor's office and how it
effectively operates and the assessor's
office is our money-making arm there's
no doubt about it the tax collector is
just a bookkeeper and collects the taxes
the assessor's office is the is the
group that sits there and values the
property and determines how much they
should pay what I'm driving at is out of
the top 20
property and I gotta I gotta phrase it
correctly the top is land the bottom is
equipment out of the land owners in town
all the top 20 are in excess of
$155,000 on the equipment within our
town and this goes for every business
this I mean this is every business that
runs out of our town every l landscaper
everything else everything that goes on
in our town those values are really low
to me there's there's only there's only
three of them that pay over $10,000
that's
that's okay that's a that's a that's not
a good that's not good for the
overall
um you know homeowners in this town
so we have to look at that that's just
this is just information for us us I
mean look at look at Benjamin Franklin
now uh I I'm going to ask the question
Eric and and even I don't know this one
um this has nothing to do with Motor
Vehicles
correct
shouldn't uh correct there shouldn't be
Motor Vehicles okay next month can you
give us the top because there's there's
people who own multiple motor vehicles
within the town I would love to know
that um uh yeah and and the other
question is you know how many visits has
the assessor's office made to these
business owners and I would like to know
that because we really don't know and
the assessor's office makes us the money
do you all we all need to understand
that the accessor office makes the
community money to be able to pay for
all the functions School roads
everything and it would be helpful if we
could understand a little a little bit
more of what they do within that office
so um how can a shell Tower be worth
$100,000 how could it be how how could
it possibly be worth less than a million
dollar uh it's a question um you know
how much did it cost to build I mean the
assessor's office or this goes in this
goes into our our our you know these are
all supposed to interact everything's
supposed to interact I mean that cell
tower was built and a building permit
was given to it it was applied for and
given to it we should know how much
money that cost to build did they give
us the right information is a different
question did we care that they gave us
the right information or didn't care
that they give us the right
information this this this exercise to
me
as an accountant and as a business owner
is the most important exercise we can go
through because it's the only way we
understand how our community makes money
now it might not be the right way to
make money I'm I'm not going to debate
that I but it's the only thing we're
given right now so because every time
somebody every time somebody hangs
something from that Tower it's worth
more money right uh it should be yeah
yeah so how can it how can it be worth
$100,000 yeah
um so those are things that we need to I
I mean really you ask me um you
know the assessor's office is a very
challenging office to
evaluate no one can sit there and say
that because you don't sit there and
evaluate the assessor's office as a
group you you evaluate the assessor's
office on your own residence or your own
personal property tax return so we as a
board need need to think about this a
little bit differently and that's why I
was glad that when Eric shared this
originally or maybe I asked for it I
might have asked for it I think Eris
gave us some information and then I
asked for a little bit more information
I think it's probably pretty good for us
in the future to understand this and
it'll be it'll be positive for the
community to understand this because of
this is this is how we make money and
you can just flat out tell all the money
is made from personal residences because
if there's six businesses
here I'd like to know how many total
businesses are on the property owner
list I mean in total um
and yeah then and then I look at this
personal property stuff and I'm like
that's kind of
low I mean that's kind of
low so anyway I don't have enough
information I I just that this is out
there
for people to understand and look at and
and try to get a an understanding so
T-Mobile Northeast like Scott says only
pays $66,000 in personal property taxes
AT&T Mobility $6,000 in personal
property taxes and how much money are
they making transmitting those signals
across the town of Andover so right yeah
okay um anybody have any other issues
they wanted to address related to this
today Eric what I would ask you for is
next month if you can keep the same
report and then put on top of it I'd
like to know the taxpayers who pay the
most motor vehicle taxes in
town so i' like the other component
because this is this is only two of the
three components of taxes for the
community the other is motor vehicles
and then there's the
supplemental motor vehicle but motor
vehicle is the next one so and then
we'll sit there and evaluate what we're
doing and
we're we're definitely going to have to
have the assessor come and talk to
us right I mean it sounds like you're
going to want the assessor and you would
need the it because it's not Vision
appraisal that does the commercial
appraisal uh for town you would need the
the town's commercial appraiser probably
to answer those questions I'm
guessing you can ask that question I
don't necessarily know there's a
commercial appraiser I think what occurs
Eric is uh uh business
owners are required to file a property
tax return right property tax return
gets submitted to the assessor's office
and the assessor's office usually just
takes the data that's provided the
question that we would want to ask is
how many of those returns are audited or
evaluated and how many visits are made
by the assessor to get out to these
Property Owners to determine if they've
even
reported the appropriate information
yes I'm talking about the property
evaluation that is Town very definitely
hires its own commercial appraiser to
appraise those property or not appraiser
but correct and and I'm not really I
mean listen I'll question the
residential property taxes don't get me
wrong I'm on the list but that's not why
I'm doing this my question to you
earlier on the property owners and and
and and the assessor can give us how
it's done so we can understand it better
and maybe ask some pointed questions as
to how we're doing it and not doing it
and and are we doing it effectively or
not my question was of the six
businesses that are on the property
owner
list four of them or five of them
collect rent and what I was after is how
is the rent evaluated into the whole
property
value you know because I look at those
apartments and go there there's probably
30 or 40 units over there correct Scott
you would know better than I would there
could be yeah
so that's even if they're paying ,000 a
month that's $40,000 in rent and they're
not paying $1,000 a month they're paying
$1,500 to $2,000 a month let's say
$2,000 a month that's $80,000 a month in
rent and I I realize there's expenses to
it I'm not going that way I'm just
asking does the 80,000 ,000 in rent that
is being generated impact the property
and the assessment value for that
property and that's it and and all I'm
trying to do I'm not trying to fall any
of these property taxpayers out or these
taxpayers out I'm just trying to
understand how it works because if we
are doing our job which we haven't done
I haven't done I'll take responsibility
I haven't done this is where the money's
made th this is how you run your
business and you know this is the
business of a small town and we have an
issue in that the balance of the the
revenue generated is generated off of
personal residences and that's fine but
it would be nice to understand exactly
how that department runs it and does it
because
um that's the most that's where all the
money is so let's try to get an
understanding of How It's Made and then
we can do a better job of doing the rest
of it because if we'd like to do other
things we might have to at some more
money so if things are not being done
correctly on here maybe it's maybe it's
us as a board calling it out of from
that department so that we get and
generate additional
money anybody else have anything related
to
this no okay I looked at this and saw
how much the um New Dollar General
brought in goes to show you how we need
new businesses
yeah it would be and maybe that's also
something and that we sit there as a
board and try to figure out ways to
um assist to generate more money because
more businesses mean more money more
money means taxes more taxes might be
able to allow us to do different things
or may be able to allow us to reduce the
burden on the personal uh homeowners
right right um okay
discussion of extensive tree trimming
burnap Brook
7e Anything Eric you ready now you're
gonna go Scott yeah go
ahead um so me and Jay went over there
and uh went over the road and if anybody
had been on that road before you can
tell that know it's a very tight Road
the trees are growing almost up to the
asphalt in many many locations
it was a dirt road when I was a kid that
they tarred it and the trees are still
there growing um so a lot of the Big
Trees along the side on the towns right
away need to be cut
down and there it's it's it's very
extensive um there's a lot of trees that
growing completely over the road from
one side to the other there there's a
lot of small trees that are grown that
in the right away also that need to be
trimmed out of there now there's a lot
of dead
trees um the the the trees are so close
to the side of the road in some areas
that the plows could possibly in a big
snowstorm if you lost your site or
something you could easily hit the trees
some of those huge trees that are down
in there
um so
uh it's going to be a big big change on
that road so the public needs to know
that it's going to be a big change but
it it's for the good of the road
actually and for you know
safety so just so I understand this what
Eric when is this potentially gonna
start there's no there's no time
schedule yet because it has to be has to
be talked about a little bit it has to
be they're trying to get every source to
do you know a split with us again half
and half they they do pay for half of it
and we pay for half of it there's a lot
of leg work to be done
this and we're not marking any trees
yet
um so it is it is pretty bad up
there um that probably goes into next
budget
season okay so so it it's it's a
problematic road we've got to try to fix
it but we're not we're not there yet
it's not like you're starting this
within the next no couple months no the
the reason Jay wanted the board of
Selectmen to understand and be on board
with this is because what he's proposing
is trimming extensively enough that it
will change the character of the road um
and you know that's what he thinks we
should do but he also wants you all to
understand that that's what he's
proposing because ultimately you're the
ones that are going to get the
complaints from residents uh you know if
we do this potentially okay so it's it's
complaints from residents about trees or
complaints from residents about the road
so we're just making an evaluation both
okay all right um start the start the
subject start the
conversation okay
um uh Paula is it possible to put
something on Facebook to sit there and
see uh the push back and say Hey listen
we're we're we're anticipating this
significant level of tree trimming to be
done on burnac Brook um this is the
reason why we're doing it because the
the trees are too close to the road
they're impacting the the the roads and
this is a planed to happen over the next
18 to 24 months um is there any real
feedback that can come back to us so
that
um I think the best way to do it is to
set up a an email that people can
because if you put a post out there
people are GNA comment and then somebody
has to take all those comments and bring
it somewhere else so either we do it
that way or you put in the
post a link to like a Google form or
something and they can they can fill
that out and it dumps into an email
somewhere that Eric can read and compile
okay um it's not that important that we
do that immediately let's think about an
the easiest possible solution to make
this as efficient as we can and but to
get some feedback and and at least we're
starting the ball rolling to say Hey
listen this is coming down the road
we're going to do this what level we do
this at will be dependent upon certain
factors but we want your input um so
yeah so we can I mean I don't know if
you want in a survey fashion but we can
put a survey out there where we can do
like a form where they fill out their
concerns and then we take that and and
it dump somewhere where we can look at
it I I don't I don't think you really
should approach it that way I think that
in the
has you know we
know I mean I can't believe there's that
many residents on that road there there
I think that all of them would probably
be happy if those trees were gone
myself I mean maybe maybe we do what
we're doing for the uh um the Joshua
trust property is we evaluate the the ab
the budding residence on the road and we
tell them what we're plan our plan is
yeah why can't we send a letter and say
if you have questions or concerns I I
think that's the better route because if
you if you put it out there on Facebook
then people who it doesn't affect are
going to comment and it's just gonna bog
it's gonna muddy the message okay so
then let's try to do it that way let's
let's so Eric what we're going to do is
try to get letters out to the people
that are um on Skinner Road initially
and uh Skinner Road burnap
Brook used to be called Skinner Road the
old Skinner Road the old Skinner Road I
apologize okay anything else related to
that topic Scott do you really want to
set the precedent that every time you're
doing freeor on a
road you're going to do that because the
next time you cut on
Gilead you know people are going to come
back to you and say well you pulled
everybody here how come you didn't pull
us well I don't necessarily know I want
you to pull them I want you to tell them
it's our plan to do road work that's
what that would be a better message it's
it's our plan to do message please let
us know um Eric's right about concerns
if you it has to be done here's what's
going to happen it's got to get done and
and they'll probably uh not respond to
to the letter but our plan is to do road
work and extensive tree work on this
road it will occur within the next you
know 18 months uh we're just letting you
know that you have any issues related to
this let us
know during it's in the towns RightWay
right yeah so y again this is one of
those issues that's just like what we
talked about with Joshua's trust you
will never make everybody happy but you
got to make decisions so
it's it's better give them a
long why didn't you notify everyone when
you did this Trail on skin and Road
and Sherry Sherry I I appreciate but you
can't you can't speak during meetings
you have to wait till public speak I
greatly I understand but please don't do
that um so um it's the issue that we
know you're going to end up getting
stuff done so we're going to do it uh
but we're trying to be considerate of
other people's feelings and other
people's issues
so okay so we're now moving on to f a
ride for CCAP Eric anything on
this uh you asked it to go back to the
board because the whole board had not
approved it I was uh presented with a an
event permit I needed to sign um Eric
please explain explain this race so that
I can get the board's approval to sign
that it's a fundraiser they do every
year they use Town streets they ride on
it that I have the authority to sign for
but they also requested to use The Old
Firehouse uh to put a porta potty on and
have essentially a restation for the
ride so it did go to all the appropriate
it did eventually get sign off
by Fire Marshall
Etc um so that has occurred now it comes
back to the
board so the question ends up being to
the board is and I'll make a motion that
um I'm I can sign this event permit but
I needed to get it in front of the board
so I'll make a motion that I I'm able to
sign the ride for CCC CCAP event
permit I'll second time all right does
anybody have any questions about the
event or anything no we're just curious
what does that mean
dcap Connecticut Children's cycling
advancement program okay thank you okay
all those in favor
I I okay five nothing all right let's go
on to new business and we're we're going
pretty slow um uh set meeting date for
the annual Town budget meeting the
proposal is May
1st I'll make a motion that we set a
meeting a town annual Town budget
meeting for May 1
2024 someone got a second on that I'll
second a yeah May 1 Sor okay that's
correct let's just look at May 1 on the
calendar so we know what we're doing
knew I was
against and um is there any is there
anything else going on that night Town
wise do we check the
calendar are you good with the
calendar I can look at the calendar but
you know it's IR irrelevant the town
meeting trumps everything anyway we're
not going to schedule a town meeting
around other things other things
schedule around the
town I don't see anything on the C
calendar so there's that okay thank you
Paula
all those in favor I
I all right Jeff Murray are you
good right Jeff Murray abstained so no I
was a yes you're yes okay you were muted
all right um uh 8B set a date for a town
meeting to discuss a
proposed um excuse me to discuss the
boundary line agreement for The King
Family boundary line agreement with the
HW family the acceptance of the Steep
Grant uh with Town match for the uh
playgrounds and pickle ball courts
um purchase and Lease of a roadside
motor uh zoning violation fine ordinance
failure to get a permit post a bond for
work in the town wway uh fine ordinance
and an ordin ordinance for commission on
agent
the uh potential dates proposed dates
are Tuesday April 23rd or Monday April
29th
um I have to get an answer on that one
I'm thinking that 23rd might be the best
day for me but I guess that doesn't
really
matter can you see those dates again
please uh they had April 23 May 29th
April 23rd or April
29 and this is for another is this is
for a town meeting as well or what is
this for again sorry town meeting yeah
this is a town meeting to vote on all of
those items that I just read and that
are on the agenda and this can't be
combined with the May 1 one
no um
I wonder if you'll get a better turnout
if you do it on the 29th I don't I don't
know just
thinking people are going to come out on
the 23rd and then a week later I'm just
thinking out loud here yeah I think
that's better than the 29th you do yeah
you think if they're closer two just two
days
apart Oh I thought it sorry thought it
was May May 29th but my internet keeps
so it's O April 23rd and April
29th um hold on for one second I have to
I have to mute myself
and I mean from my perspective the 23rd
is ideal because that gives the board of
Finance um because some of the decisions
that are made will impact the budget and
the budget meeting the board of Finance
public budget meeting is on the 24th so
that would make those decisions made
before they actually have their public
meeting I'm gonna make a recommendation
is that let's um this this is just me
put the the
mower oh man that's a
so Eric you're concerned about the mower
and the the Steep
Grant related to the budget this current
budget um the mower is the only thing
that has a major impact on the budget
but remember every one of these meetings
costs us money and that's why we've been
pushing it off because you wanted
everything to go at once understood and
um
um I I'm going to recommend that we put
the purchase of and the lease of the
roadside moare on the town meeting but
the budget meeting can we do that just
that one item and put that in the front
of this this whole
thing I and then answer that question to
be honest I I don't know the answer to
that I don't know that
we I don't know got a Dennis question
because he's on he's on Dennis Dennis if
we put a question can we put a question
at the beginning of the budget meeting
because it is a town meeting can we put
a question at the beginning of the
meeting you're muted you got to unmute
yourself can anybody unmute him or he
has to do it on his phone it's
what's the what is it
star I think it's star star eight he he
knows he might maybe he's stepped away
from his desk
um
okay I I think the meeting on the 23rd
or the 29th to do this to do all the
other items is probably a little too
tight
Eric Dennis are you with us no okay so
um I'm going to suggest we push that but
the only problem is we push it into May
we're pushing it into issues related to
if the budget doesn't pass what are we
doing then and then we got referendums
and everything else um I'm not sure that
that we'll be ready for that meeting in
two weeks um that would be my concern
and my concern for for attorney O'Brien
because there's a lot of issues here
that he he's worked on but he has to
finalize before then so I would sit
there and recommend that we push that
off and we we do this that meeting the
town meeting in June but we have to do
the mower before the budget because it
impacts the budget
correct it does impact the budget I
think that's a good way of looking at it
yeah but I don't think that I don't
think it can be done at the same time as
the annual budget meeting but I'm not
that's not my area of exper okay Dennis
if you're listening to us can you text
me if that's possible if you can't do it
um because he's still
muted
um uh he's saying we cannot do that
thanks that wasn't the answer that I
wanted
um Dennis you were supposed to say yes
you can and we sit there and try to be
as efficient as we possibly can be um
yes you can't to what what you question
or what I just I just wanted to we could
have so Eric is there any way that we
can position that as part of the budget
the roadside mower
it is part of the budget but what are we
asking what just so we're all clear
because I think I have it in my head but
I want to understand exactly what we're
asking for we're asking for the ability
to put a lease together for the current
budget for the current budget cycle and
pay the first lease payment right
correct to basically we're asking to
agree to lease this vehicle now and sign
a contract now so we can get an existing
one that's built
um that's cheaper than waiting you know
for the build time and getting one eight
months from
now so a decision that this board should
be able to make in two seconds we have
to go to town meeting for to sit there
and get it
approved okay yes very
poor that's the charter yeah
okay
um that should be the only I mean that's
going to be the only part only item on
this to and and I'd like look why are we
having a town meeting to do that let's
just do it as part of the budget item
let's put it in the beginning let's have
people vote on it
um we'll have the majority you don't
want to buy it this year you want to buy
it next year no no no no I want to buy
this year I want to put the question on
the budget
meeting H actually this is how I want to
do it I want to have two Town meetings
back toback I want to have the first
town meeting um and I want to have it
just be the mower and we vote on it
before the the the budget meeting and
then we have the budget meeting same day
same time same group of
people Dennis can that be happened can
you pull that off text me that one
you may be able to pull it off
okay yes dude two time meetings is good
okay Eric we're doing two time meetings
back to back first one is on the mower
the second one is on the budget you're
going to do it on May 1 okay so none of
those other things you want to bring up
uh we're going to have to schedule
another town meeting because I I I we're
gonna have to do that separately to sit
there and push it after the budget cycle
so sometime in June I would guess would
be the best part the best thing to do
related to that okay apologize for that
but I think we're
probably that will probably
work I want I want I
want um I'm gonna ask if someone can
mute individuals on the
meeting are we all set Eric far as I
know all right thank you
um okay so um yes so Eric we're going to
schedule that meeting we're going to get
Dennis uh enough time to sit there and
do it and we're going to do it after the
budget is
passed okay and we're g to get it done
quickly Eric we're not going to make you
wait too much
longer okay um anybody else have any
issues related to the town meeting
anybody have any issues pushing it
back anybody have any issues of doing
two toown meeting meetings all at one
time okay my my question with that is
can they do they have to have the budget
presentation ready depending on that
vote isn't that going to change how they
have the budget to present to the town's
people I mean if they say no then the
budget changes from what it would be
yes is that a big
difference it's one line right
Eric I mean yeah it will have some
impact on the budget um I haven't really
thought that through because I was not
anticipating that being a line of where
we were going with it so that's a board
of Finance question the board of Finance
was the one was pushing us to have the
town meeting get those decisions made
sooner rather than later but if we don't
we don't but the question
is if is there the possibility that the
presentation can be changed or modified
if there's a yes Vote or a no vote like
that's my
question and how
that that's probably a mark Brinker
question not an Eric question because
that's his you
know his at that point all right Joanne
Ebert has her hand up and so she's the
representative from the board of Finance
go ahead give us an answer
Joan thank you just real quick it is
gonna be disappointing because we had
been waiting for a town meeting I
understand you don't want to spend the
money to have the two back to back we
had been hoping I know there was issues
with I know the whole list that uh um
Eric had brought forward with some other
things um yeah so it's just overall
disappointing because we keep waiting
I'm not worried about disappointing Joan
what
I'm or not that's all we're
asking well it it of so hearing that
there's not even GNA be a meeting and
it's and no one's remembering why we
wanted to do this you know it was going
to affect how we put the budget together
we have two big weeks coming up so um
yeah we'll just have to go with it I
mean I do go to all the meetings and I
get the input from how you all feel but
I am so disappointed and even but but
that's not even that we can't do our
jobs in the right way because this has
been pushed off month after month after
month but that's okay we're gonna we're
gonna hang in there yes I'm sure it's
going to be difficult for Mark to put
the budget document together because
you're having a back-to-back meeting
that night I'm I'm just frustrated and
you asked the question so we'll do
whatever you guys want us to do we
always will but we wanted the town input
on all these important
items okay thank you
um how much okay how much is it to do
another meeting let's just talk about
the number real quick I just want to
know do we know
Eric um it's probably 1,500 bucks it's
not a lot more than that it's not a
giant
uh you know a giant
expense what's our gamble as a group our
gamble is that it gets
rejected that's the
gamble well do you know the town is
going to back you on the Steep Grant
because we have a committee spinning
their heels working on this when we
don't even know whether the town's going
to accept it will they more than likely
um it's a great proposal it should be
accepted
um that's one you know I don't
think I mean we're pushing it we're
already pushing it pretty dramatically
whether we get the mower or not because
you know at some point somebody else is
gonna buy the damn thing out from under
us I mean the only thing that saves us
is most other towns won't have the money
until the new fiscal year
either all right so let let's ask the
questions then do you have the boundary
line agreement with the King Family done
is it ready to go that's a Dennis
question he's had all the information
all right I've got the documentation the
Mets and Bounds and the mapping that's
in your packet okay and the in the the
so Dennis and he can't talk he can't get
his computer to work or his phone to
work
um it's two weeks it's two weeks it's
two weeks for our town attorney to do
all that
work then we can't do it it's that
simple all right but that doesn't mean
but that doesn't mean we can't do the
two things that you want to really get
done which which would mean we just have
to have a different town
meeting
so can we have a town meeting on the
mower and on the Steep
Grand
sure yep all right
um um the 23rd is the the only day that
I can't make the other day so if we did
it we would do it the
23rd but if if you want me there if you
don't want me there it's okay too
because it's only two questions but
um if we're going to do that and have
the meeting before the the budget
meeting it's the 23rd would be the day I
would ask everybody to consider
let's do
it all right so anybody have any
problems with the 23rd just we'll just
go no so I'm gonna make a motion no
don't don't base it on me but I'm I'm a
possibility that I might not be there
that night so okay but majority rules so
all right um so we don't need the full
board anyway right we don't but yeah
it's just a
yeah um so I'm G to make a motion that
we set a town um a town meeting for
Tuesday April 23rd to
discuss the purchase and Lease of uh a
roadside Mower and the acceptance of the
Steep Grant uh for the uh
Town um Recreation Area for the
playground and the pickle ball
courts a
second right uh further discussion all
those in
favor
I okay and then just to sit there and
and the the other items we're going to
have to sit there and and schedule that
meeting when Dennis O'Brien gives us
um
uh a date and a timeline that he can
complete all of the other items so that
we can we can do it all at one
time all right um
HC uh the ebike laner program
Eric sorry Dennis was calling
me phone you can call
you Dennis you're done sorry uh Eric e-
looner ebike ebike yep so I submitted
the grant but we obviously don't have to
to accept it even if we get it um what
are your questions relative to that I
gave you the basic outline of the
details I asked kerma uh for an
evaluation of that um they will get back
to me eventually um probably not in the
next month but I mean eventually we'll
get something back from kma okay um I
don't have any issues I think it's great
that you applied for the grant well
let's see if we get it if we get it then
we can sit there and make some decisions
anybody else have any other
issues okay
there's a lot of issues that go along
with it right but we're going to discuss
them right once if the grants approved
we're not just because the grants
approved we're not going to move ahead
with this correct
correct because there is a lot of
liability issues and usage issues that
we really need to iron out okay and
who's going to run the
program who's gonna maintain the bikes
who's going to maintain the bikes
brought back in all good all good things
that we should have on the agenda agenda
and hopefully if the budget passes and
we have a person at the community center
running those things they can be part of
that program that's how I would look at
it but we don't have to accept the grant
if we get it we should accept the grant
if we get it and we should figure out
how to do it but those are all issues
that we can work on that sounds like an
excellent thing okay
um uh 8D uh Charter revision uh panel
discussion um actually uh I I asked Eric
to put this on the agenda um
I want to sit there and uh Empower
another Charter revision group um all we
need to do today is is agree to do it
because what I would like to do is get
everybody's opinions on what we need to
revise in the charter because coming to
a presidential election there'll be a
tremendous turnout and if we're going to
do Charter revision we should always do
it on a presidential election vote and
so that that is what I'm after so um
uh and with a certain timing uh I have
some available free time and my goal is
to sit there and uh work on that so all
right so you need a motion for that Jeff
yeah I just need a motion to um
uh and I'll make
it Dennis Ryan oh my God technology got
I finally got in with your cockamamy
system but but uh I'm I'm a little bit
upset about this town meeting thing all
the ordinances that I've done they're
all done okay i' I've done
like tons of them I sent them to Eric
some of them are on the agenda some of
them are not but those are all done and
ready to go I could go with those
tomorrow the only thing I haven't done
is I haven't created the documents for
the um the king property I need Eric to
help me with that but I can do that okay
so stuff
should okay that's fine but we're gonna
have to do we're gonna Dennis we're
gonna have to do another town meeting
anyway all right all right I just don't
want to wait forever on all these
ordinances I spent a lot of time going
over all no we're gonna we're going to
get them all done we're going to get
them
all not that we're not going to have a
second meeting it's just that if we
don't do a meeting the 20 so if you're
telling me you don't have the king
document done and you won't have that by
the no no listen listen you don't have
that done by 2 I will I will get it done
I will I I will do whatever I need to do
that's that's what I do okay but I need
Eric I need to sit down with Eric to
help me okay all right Eric yep that's
fine okay
good so so now Dennis so Dennis you sat
there and said
listen listen listen my friend I've got
to c one second I got to go backwards if
you're if you're tell you send me a text
you sent me a text saying that you could
not do the 23rd it's too
soon and and now speak speaking to us
speaking to us and you're telling us you
can do it can you do it yes I I was too
I said I couldn't do it because I have a
conflict that night but I will be there
I sorry
okay listen Dennis I'm gon to revise my
motion for the town
meeting if nobody on the board of
Selectmen has a problem now that we can
hear from the town attorney I'm gonna
sit there and go I'm
gonna gonna make a motion that we
authorize uh or we we set a date a
meeting date for a town meeting of April
23rd to uh uh to bring to town meeting
uh a boundary line agreement with the
King family a boundary line agreement
with the Haw family acceptance of the
Steep Grant uh between the state and the
town for the recreational field uh
playground and pickle ball courts um
purchase and Lease of a roadside motor
for the Department of Public Works a
zoning violation ordinance um a failure
to get a permit and post a bond for work
in the town RightWay and an ordinance
for the commission on agent
yeah that's good I have Dennis Dennis
I'll second that je all right thank you
Scott any
further mute
yourself any further any further
discussion I'll never get back in all
right all in favor I so we're moving
forward with a town meeting to do all of
the items that have been listed on the
agenda and it's going to be scheduled
for April 23rd 7 p.m. uh at the
community room Eric or at the at the gym
at the community room I think this is a
that's not GNA be big enough we can do
that in the community room all right
community room okay all right um Dennis
thank you very much we do appreciate all
your efforts um you're welcome Jeff
thank you Dennis thank you very much
okay I'm glad I was able to get in
there you go um all right on the charter
revision yes sir you just need a motion
to create a commission okay so that's
that's all you need to do tonight but
you're gonna have to
somehow uh imp uh appoint the commission
within 30 days okay
so and that doesn't fall within your
next meeting regular meeting is the
14th of uh May and that's outside of 30
days so you going to have to have a
special meeting okay um so um we can
work on that I'll make a motion that we
impanel a charter revision commission
committee I'll second that okay um
further discussion on a charter revision
commission
anybody you're going to be the
chairman uh I will be the representative
from the board of selectman if I'm a
panel at our next meeting yeah I think
the chairman has to be voted on right
the chairman has to be voted on yes no
no no no no no no not not the chairman
of
um I won't the the committee elects the
chairman uh our board imp panels the the
participants in the charter revision
committee and that would happen at the
next meeting I am telling you that I
will sit there and do that and I would
like to do that but you the members all
need to vote on that
right because there's rules within our
Charter that only one elected official
per five members two elected officials
if we extend the panel to seven but what
we need to do is if we vote on this and
we agree to do it we got to advertise it
and then we got to get people to sit
there and come and put their names in
and saying that they'll sit there and do
it and then we have to have five members
that will imp panel themselves at a
minimum and then if we get more we can
impanel seven um but
yes very good all we need to
we do it go ahead
Dennis I just want to say that if you
know you you're on if you want to get it
on the ballot for November you have to
have it into the Secretary of State's
office by early September so you're
going to be you don't have a lot of time
so I recommend that you appoint a the
smallest number of commission members
that you can do and that's five and if
you have five it's state law not our
Charter that says only one can be a
public a Current public official and if
that happens to be our first selectman
so be it but that's that's that's all I
need to tell you now I could give you an
hourong presentation right now
absolutely not because I am all geared
up I'm ready to talk no we're
good all right I'll shut up okay um so
um we we have
um we have the motion in front of us I
just want to um
any other questions any other issues
anything no I just my questions are
simply
Logistics um so you want to advertise in
the paper advertise on social media when
do you want responses back from members
at large or are you just going to pick
members at large how do you want to
April by by U April 21st because my
thought is that we we have a a a special
meeting on April 23rd if at all possible
and and vote and in panel the members
because if not we're going to have to
have a special meeting because what
Dennis is saying is it's 30 days and
today is the uh 11th and our next
meeting's not till the 14th so we'd have
to have some special some type of
special meeting to sit there and do this
now we can do this may 1 if everybody's
willing to just you know get on a zoom
call for two minutes to do this um or we
can try to do the 23rd what's everyone's
opinion you could meet a half an hour
before the town meeting and just knock
out a special meeting with one single
agenda item that's what I was thinking
but I'm not sure that gives the
community enough time to to put their
names in the Hat to want to do
this Prett
tight
first okay for May 1 yeah let's do it
May 1 I mean we have up until the 10th
of
May um we can do we can do we can do uh
we want um Eric Logistics we want
everybody to uh who wants to participate
to have uh a letter of of of
U
uh someone help me with that it's letter
of intent letter of intent for May 1 and
then let's have a meeting on May 8th
very quickly to sit there in you know 15
minutes to imp panel the group so by May
1st you send all of the people who want
to participate to to the board and then
on May 8th we sit there and have a
meeting it will fall within the 30 days
and then we can get started and we can
um all come at the next meeting and
everybody can sit there and and give
their opinion from the board perspective
as to what items within the charter need
to be revised so that we can have a
cohesive uh
analysis of the charter and try to sit
there and and get something passed uh in
November so we haven't voted so um those
are the logistics that I think would
work the best if everybody can sit there
and do it so all those in favor of un
paneling a charter revision committee hi
okay okay all right everybody needs to
read the charter quick yeah um so I
think that that's everything from new
business so uh item nine approval of
minute meetings for uh March 11th
2024 I make a motion to accept the
meeting minutes of March 11
2024 seconded all those in favor I all
right
um treasur report Eric are there any
items that you want to address within
the treasurer's report or anything that
you need to call out to us
nope anybody have any questions related
to the treasurer's
report okay um Tax Collector's
report there's some refund
requests is that accurate
Eric yeah it looks like there's only one
refund request for $
6640 okay
let's sit there and get to
it uh that is Page 61 of the
packet okay thank
you um I I'll make a motion that we uh
approve a refund of excess payments for
a resident for Lauren and
Carrera for
$664 a second all right further
discussion all those in favor I right
okay I'm assuming that was five to
nothing I didn't sit there and see
anything
um we're moving on
to uh the departmental reports does
anybody have any questions on any of the
department Al reports that were provided
item 12 on our
agenda
okay uh we'll move on to item 13 Eric is
there any
correspondence uh
no okay and we're going to move on to
item 14 public
speak uh so Eric please make sure that
people are un not unmuted from our end
all right uh I'm G to start with Bill
Penn
Bill I'm I'm good thank you I appreciate
uh all the work you guys do and all your
discussions and everything thank you
very much all right thank you uh Jody
gross I'm uh I'm good as well I just
I'll Echo what Bill said um as a board
you're appreciated um from the town
residents the level of rigor and
inclusive approach you guys are taking
is fantastic um and then um our town
manager there just Eric uh wonderful I
you know I remember our town out Town
manager and it's stunk so having you
sort of project manage lead all that
stuff it it's it's appreciated by the
residents um and then lastly I'll you
know I I'll just say I know that
there'll never be 100% agreement on
issues um so you know as you think about
something like the Skinner Hill um I I
guess I would encourage you to continue
to drive for a solution um you know that
that'll have the least impact and think
honestly about the most residents in
town not just the the the few that might
be might be loud um but again you're all
appreciated thanks right thank you very
much uh
Sherry I would like everybody to think
about how this would be violating me as
a person and as the only safety I have
right
now and I am one person but if you don't
look behind the story of the
people and what's really going on is it
really impacting other people more than
me I don't think that you're looking at
all the
points that make it significant
and it's the ignorance of the
community and they're not trauma
informed and it's sad so I'm not mad at
you I just don't think you understand
and I have extensive trauma
history and you're not
validating because I didn't tell you but
you but you think that it's okay if I
don't like it or
not I don't even know my curtains right
now and you haven't taken into
consideration that you didn't notify
anyone that they're going to be walking
through the woods in our in our area
next to my
property and you think that it it it's
making me feel safe because you don't
think that it's that I'm significant to
be informed that somebody's going to be
walking around my
property and that had a lot to do with
how much more significant the the
reaction was from me so I think that as
a board and the town manager should
think about not only where people live
but where they're
at and is it really impacting
someone less or more than the
others and I live alone and I'm a
widow and I have no one's protect me and
I don't feel the town is looking at that
either thank
you all right thank you Sher uh Diane
grer yes good evening um on on the issue
of the Joshua Tree um the new entrance
from Wheeling Road um I'm surprised that
Jeff Murray is not um recusing himself
from the discussion and the vote um as
he has a personal interest in this issue
I mean I understand his his concern and
whatever but as a member of the board of
Selectmen uh a voting member um I think
it's in appropriate that that he should
be in um involved in the discussion and
the voting on an issue where he has a
personal
interest okay that's it anything else
Diane no that that's pretty much it
thank you all for all you do it's it's
always interesting to tuning in to these
uh meetings thank you thank you very
much uh Joanie
Bert um I just wanted to comment too on
the discussion I can appreciate a good
discussion on an issue and I think a
good board should be made up of people
that aren't afraid of you know having
opposing opinions I'm always outspoken
on the board that I'm a part of and I
know that sometimes people get taken
aback but I don't have a problem I would
rather say an issue to someone's face or
to bring up an issue um rather than to
do you know behind the scenes that's
just the type of person I am I was kind
of siding with Paula on this issue with
what she brought up you
know it's wonderful that Joshua trust
wants to be involved and do a lot for
the town but um you know with the
changes and everything I think it is
good that the Public's aware of that and
if it becomes too much of an issue I see
their part too you know they they're
coming back and forth each month and
they just wanted to decision because if
Andover doesn't take it on then they're
going to go somewhere else um yeah
that's what I want to say on that I look
forward to seeing how that goes and um
and again it's it's really good to have
debate if everybody agreed on everything
then um it wouldn't come to pass so
that's why I appreciate everyone's
opinions when I listen and why I really
do want to hear from the town on a lot
of issues where decisions are going to
be made thank you so much all right
thank you I think I uh covered everyone
is that accurate I'm didn't miss anybody
leave anybody out I believe so okay all
right we're on to our last item on the
agenda um item 16 um oh no I'm sorry
um um we have an executive session um
well I'm going to thank the members of
the public for for joining us uh Eric we
need to sit there and um I'm going to
make a motion to move into executive
session and remove all of the uh the
members and I'm gonna recommend that we
invite Eric Anderson Town Administrator
and town attorney Dennis
O'Brien anybody want to make a second
that one and let's get this started and
seconded it all those in favor I okay
thank you everyone for joining us uh
Eric if you can make sure that everybody
else is out a community voice Bill pen
and then stop the recording we can